ingress: add docs on PathType and IngressClass features (#19231)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress.md

A default backend is often configured in an Ingress controller to service any requests that do not
match a path in the spec.

### Path Types

Each path in an Ingress has a corresponding path type. There are three supported
path types:

* **ImplementationSpecific:** With this default path type, matching is up to the
  IngressClass. Implementations can treat this as a separate PathType or treat
  it identically to Prefix or Exact path types

* **Exact:** Matches the URL path exactly and with case sensitivity.

* **Prefix:** PathTypePrefix matches based on a URL path prefix split by '/'.
  Matching is case sensitive and done on a path element by element basis. A path
  element refers to the list of labels in the path split by the '/' separator. A
  request is a match for path p if every p is an element-wise prefix of p of the
  request path. Note that if the last element of the path is a substring of the
  last element in request path, it is not a match (e.g. /foo/bar matches

>   /foo/bar/baz, but does not match /foo/barbaz).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Prefix:** PathTypePrefix matches based on a URL path prefix split by `/`.
  Matching is case sensitive and done on a path element by element basis. A path
  element refers to the list of labels in the path split by the `/` separator. A
  request is a match for path _p_ if every _p_ is an element-wise prefix of _p_ of
  the request path.
    {{< note >}}
    If the last element of the path is a substring of the
    last element in request path, it is not a match (for example:
    `/foo/bar` matches`/foo/bar/baz`, but does not match `/foo/barbaz`).
    {{< /note >}}
```

(I think that'll render right, but please check!)

Reviewer 2: Thanks, that is a lot better, updated.

A default backend is often configured in an Ingress controller to service any requests that do not
match a path in the spec.

### Path Types

Each path in an Ingress has a corresponding path type. There are three supported
path types:

> * **ImplementationSpecific:** With this default path type, matching is up to the

Reviewer: Since these strings are like values of an enum, I'd write them in backticks and make them italic not bold.
I haven't tried this so if you do and it looks awful, that is fair enough.

You could also write for this line:
```suggestion
* _`ImplementationSpecific`_ (default): With this path type, matching is up to the
```

If you do that, I'd move the colon characters for the other two path types to be outside the closing `_` (ie, not italic).

Reviewer 2: Good call, should be updated now, thanks!

>   IngressClass. Implementations can treat this as a separate PathType or treat

Reviewer: actually, also this nit:
```suggestion
  IngressClass. Implementations can treat this as a separate `pathType` or treat
```

(to match how it looks in a manifest)

Reviewer 2: Updated, thanks!

>   it identically to Prefix or Exact path types

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
  it identically to Prefix or Exact path types.
```

Reviewer: Alternatively, if using the revised formatting:
```suggestion
  it identically to `Prefix` or `Exact` path types.
```

Reviewer 2: Updated, thanks!

* **Exact:** Matches the URL path exactly and with case sensitivity.

* **Prefix:** Matches based on a URL path prefix split by `/`. Matching is case
  sensitive and done on a path element by element basis. A path element refers
  to the list of labels in the path split by the `/` separator. A request is a
  match for path _p_ if every _p_ is an element-wise prefix of _p_ of the
  request path.
    {{< note >}}
    If the last element of the path is a substring of the
    last element in request path, it is not a match (for example:
    `/foo/bar` matches`/foo/bar/baz`, but does not match `/foo/barbaz`).
    {{< /note >}}

#### Multiple Matches
In some cases, multiple paths within an Ingress will match a request. In those
cases precedence will be given first to the longest matching path. If two paths
are still equally matched, precedence will be given to paths with an exact path
type over prefix path type.

### Backends
A backend specifies the endpoints that a request should be routed to. A Service
can be referenced using the `serviceName` and `servicePort` fields of a backend.

> Alternatively, other types of resources can be referenced with the `resource`

Reviewer 2: Woops, thanks! I've pulled this out for now.

object reference field.

Backends defined as part of a path definition describe how traffic matching that

> path should be routed. Backends defined as part of a path definition describe

Author: Nit: I found myself rereading the second sentence a few times to properly understand what it meant. Offhand I don't have a suggestion yet, but I think we might be able to rearrange/drop a few words to increase clarity.

Reviewer 2: Yeah I was trying to communicate the difference in meaning between `spec.backend` and `spec.rules.paths.backend` and could not find a good way to write it. Thanks for pointing out that the backend changes will really only be usable in 1.19 - because of that I've just reverted this back to the original text. We can solve this in the next release.

A default backend is often configured in an Ingress controller to service any requests that do not
match a path in the spec.

### Path Types

Each path in an Ingress has a corresponding path type. There are three supported
path types:

* **ImplementationSpecific:** With this default path type, matching is up to the
  IngressClass. Implementations can treat this as a separate PathType or treat
  it identically to Prefix or Exact path types

* **Exact:** Matches the URL path exactly and with case sensitivity.

> * **Prefix:** PathTypePrefix matches based on a URL path prefix split by `/`.

Author: ```suggestion
* **Prefix:** Prefix matches based on a URL path prefix split by `/`.
```

Author: PathTypePrefix is the internal Go type, but Prefix should be the string specified for the pathType value

Reviewer 2: Good catch, thanks! Should be fixed now. Also I don't think I can mark things as resolved on this PR, so feel free to mark this or anything else as resolved if it seems like it's been covered.

If none of the hosts or paths match the HTTP request in the Ingress objects, the traffic is
routed to your default backend.

## Ingress Class

Ingresses can be implemented by different controllers, often with different
configuration. Each Ingress should specify a class, a reference to an
IngressClass resource that contains additional configuration including the name
of the controller that should implement the class.

```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: IngressClass
metadata:
  name: external-lb
spec:
  controller: example.com/ingress-controller
  parameters:
    apiGroup: k8s.example.com/v1alpha
    kind: IngressParameters
    name: external-lb
```

IngressClass resources contain an optional parameters field. This can be used to
reference additional configuration for this class.

### Deprecated Annotation

> Before the IngressClass resource and ingressClassName field were added in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before the IngressClass resource and `ingressClassName` field were added in
```

Reviewer 2: Thanks, fixed!

Kubernetes 1.18, Ingress classes were specified with a
`kubernetes.io/ingress.class` annotation on the Ingress. This annotation was

> never formally defined, but was widely supported by Ingress Controllers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
never formally defined, but was widely supported by Ingress controllers.
```

Reviewer 2: Thanks, fixed!

The newer `ingressClassName` field on Ingresses is a replacement for that
annotation, but is not a direct equivalent. While the annotation was generally
used to reference the name of the Ingress controller that should implement the
Ingress, the field is a reference to an IngressClass resource that contains
additional Ingress configuration, including the name of the Ingress controller.

### Default Ingress Class

> An IngressClass can be marked as default within a Kubernetes cluster. Setting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can mark a particular IngressClass as default for your cluster. Setting
```

Reviewer 2: Thanks, updated!

the `ingressclass.kubernetes.io/is-default-class` annotation to `true` on an
IngressClass resource will ensure that new Ingresses without an `ingressClassName`
field specified will be assigned this default IngressClass.

Note: If more than one IngressClass is concurrently marked as default in a
cluster, new Ingresses without the `ingressClassName` field specified will not
be able to be created. This can be resolved by ensuring that at most 1

> IngressClasess are marked as default in the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< caution >}}
If you have more than one IngressClass marked as the default for your
cluster, the API server prevents creating new Ingress objects that don't
have an `ingressClassName` specified. You can resolve this by ensuring
that at most 1 IngressClasess are marked as default in your cluster.
{{< /caution >}}
```
BTW what kind of rejection? I guessed. It's best to be clear.

Reviewer 2: It's actually rejected by the corresponding admission controller. Wasn't sure if I should put the name since it's really just the "DefaultIngressClass" admission controller. Updated to use that formatting + reference the admission controller.

Reviewer: Ah that makes sense. Naming the thing both helps avoid writing in the passive vice and informs readers who might want to know the detail.
